---
title: 5 Tips For Hiring the Right WordPress Contractor
image: "/img/blog-3-header.jpg"
description: A place where community members can network and help one another
thumbnail: "/img/blog-3-header.jpg"
color_overlay: "#009480"
author: chris-mcgrath
categories:
- Perspective
---

Finding and hiring the right WordPress contractor doesn't have to be difficult. Let's explore five important things to consider as you search for the right fit. 

What Do You Need? 
First of all, you must assess your needs before searching for a web contractor. You might need a full-stack developer to build a custom theme. Or, you might just need a web coordinator to create a basic site. Not certain about your needs just yet? No problem. We're here to help. 

As you build, take note of the costs involved with custom WordPress development or WordPress setup. You may need other services, like content strategy, SEO, analytics, security, or site maintenance. 

Some contractors offer various services, other contractors have their niches. Do you need a one-stop-shop? Or will someone with a small, specialized skill set be enough? Many contractors have a network of colleagues who can fill in any gaps. 

What Can You Pay? 
Maybe you need a WordPress contractor for a specific task. Maybe you need to hire a contractor to figure out a solution. Whatever solution you need, the complexity and scale of your project are dictated by your budget. 

Custom development costs more upfront, and you will need long-term support. Some themes and plugins require license fees but offer developer support. 

Have a specific problem with a WordPress site you're operating? Take note of what happened first the time the issue arose. Consider whether you've performed updates, installed new plugins, or added code. Understanding your site's issues will help you analyze your needs, and narrow your search for a WordPress contractor.

Understanding Your Talent 
When all you want is a working site, there's nothing more frustrating than sifting through quotes, portfolios, and resumes. 

Consider partnering with a firm like WP Contractors to source talent. We can consult to help you determine the scope of your project. Our resources are pre-screened and can scale according to your needs. 

Need on-demand, contract-to-hire, or full-time talent? Choose the engagement style that fits your goals, and get to work.

Rules of Engagement 
If you have the budget to hire a project manager, we recommend doing so. A dedicated PM can help get your project done efficiently. If you don't have a budget for a PM, keep these key tips in mind. 

Outline expectations, set deadlines, give feedback and respect your developer's expertise

Utilize a management tool, like Trello, to track progress and keep tabs on tasks

Build a model, wireframe, or prototype for the project, but remain open to suggestions
 

Prioritize Payment
Arrange a payment schedule, and be certain that you stick to it. Paying your contractor will keep them working hard and invested in the project. Many contractors are running their own small businesses. Paying your contractor on time gives them security, and incentive to hold up their agreement. 

Don't want to be bogged down with paperwork and payment? With WP Contractors, you can manage all invoices and payments for one or many projects. 

Keep these five tips in mind when looking for a WordPress contractor, and you'll see your project succeed. First, determine what you want. Then, determine what services you require. Find a dedicated, pre-screened WP developer. After hiring your talent, communicate well, stay organized, and make payment a top priority. 

Need some extra help? Let's talk. 
