---
title: 5 Best Hosting Packages for WordPress
image: "/img/blog-4-header.jpg"
description: A place where community members can network and help one another
thumbnail: "/img/blog-4-header.jpg"
color_overlay: "#009480"
author: chris-mcgrath
categories:
- Perspective
---

If you’re a beginner and want to learn more about hosting and domains, you’ve come to the right place. On the internet today, the choices seem endless. Remote-work options let us to focus more on developing our online businesses. But before setting up your own digital business, it helps to understand the ins and outs of hosting and domains.

Hosting

Hosting is the home of your website. Whether you’re self-hosted or using a hosting provider, the approach is similar. Hosting is primarily used to ensure that your business website is available 24/7.A great hosting package provides a template for adding your own web content. There are many hosting services available to help your website run efficiently.

However, there are different types of servers to consider for your online business. Before signing up for web hosting be sure to plan for your budget, needs, and the type of services you want to offer.

There are different types of servers to purchase for your online business. Signing up for a web server? Get the right hosting for your business according to budget, needs, and the work you want to perform.

Hosting Types

Shared hosting: Affordable, but the server can be slow. 

Dedicated hosting: Expensive, but provides an entire web server. 

Reseller hosting: Affordable, flexible and reliable.

If you already have a host, but aren’t satisfied with the service you’re getting, don’t fret. You can simply switch to another server.

The process of shifting host servers from one to another (e.g. Hostgator to Bluehost), is called migration. By copying data from the previous host to the new host, this process ensures that your data is preserved! Even the tiniest details are transferred.

Features of a Hosting Plan
Hosting providers offer many features beyond just servers. Some nice-to-haves include:

Email accounts: POP3, forwarding, and aliases

Domain names: the name of your website.

FTP access: upload files from your computer to web servers.

WordPress support: partner with a WordPress-savvy host for best results.

Five Best Hosting Packages of 2020
So how can web hosting help your online business? By allowing you to have more control over your business website and piece-of-mind that it will run reliably. Moreover, a professional hosting package ensures a friendly user experience, faster response times, and services like 24/7 live customer support.

BlueHost
Bluehost is the most popular and considered the best among all other packages. It was founded in 2007 and hosts close to 3 million websites around the world. 

Easy on the pocket, Bluehost provides low-cost, affordable hosting. Their hosting plans even come with a 30-day money-back guarantee. They make it simple to get your online business up and running fast. Keep in mind that many of their discounts are only available for long-term plans.

Hostgator Cloud
Founded in 2002, Hostgator Cloud currently hosts over 2 million websites. The hosting package provides lots of features such as unlimited email accounts, easy WordPress install and configuration, and a free SSL certificate. All plans come with a 45-day money-back guarantee.

Hostinger 
The least expensive, Hostinger offers extremely affordable plans without compromising quality. They’re a good option for beginners. Services provided by Hostinger include email, WordPress, VPS, and more.

Dreamhost
Dreamhost's advantage? No high renewals. DreamHost also provides high security features and domain management tools.

Siteground
Known for their customer support, Siteground offers WooCommerce hosting, WordPress hosting, cloud, and enterprise hosting. They also offer a 30-day money-back guarantee. 

Domains
What is a domain name? It is actually your website’s name or URL. It is a way for internet users to access your site on the web.

Usually, IP addresses are difficult to memorize because of the long list of numbers, hence the use of domain names. They make it possible to quickly identify properties on the internet.

Every domain is unique, and just like your fingerprints can identify only you. A domain is your digital ID. The sole purpose of establishing a Domain Name System (DNS) is to locate the web to the IP address that designates it (AKA an idiosyncratic address). 

Domains are also categorized based on the different availability of generics and DNS. The top-level domains are .com, .net, and .org. 

Domain names are provided by hosting services as well. Secure a catchy title to stay memorable.

Running an Online Business Has Never Been Easier 
If all of this hosting talk is stressing you out, don’t worry. Just follow these simple steps below to get started securing your web hosting and domain name. 

Find a good hosting service. 

Buy a catchy domain.

Register your hosting provider and domain name. 

Install WordPress.

Customize your design. 

Start writing your blog posts.

Share, share, share!

Bring More Guests To Your Website 
We’ve learned a bit more about hosting, domains, and hosting packages. These insights will help you to get started on your own online business. Want to hire a WordPress developer to help with hosting and domain trouble today? Let's chat! 
